# 11.2

### Goals

-   Create a different type of API endpoint to accept incoming (often called POST) data from a client's request.
-   Implement functionality called middleware so our server can understand the type of data we are looking to post.
    -Use a tool called Insomnia to test POST requests while we wait for a finished front end.

## 11.2.1

Which of the following gameplans do you think is the best way to tackle this lesson?

_We want users to be able to add animals to the catalog. We don’t have a front-end application to test whether this new route works yet, though, so instead of waiting until we’ve built it, we can use Insomnia to test the routes. Once we’ve established that the routes work, we can add functionality to handle animal creation._

1. Add POST route to the animals endpoint. We’ll extend the API’s capabilities so that it can receive new data rather than only sending data.
2. Test routes in Insomnia. We’ll use an application called Insomnia to test the new POST route functionality.
3. Add middleware so the application can accept POST data. We need to tell the application how incoming data should be organized and structured.
4. Add a function to handle animal creation. We’ll create a function that takes information from the POST request and adds it to the catalog.

Incorrect:

1. Add POST route to the animals endpoint. We’ll extend the API’s capabilities so that it can receive new data rather than only sending data.
2. Add a function to handle animal creation. We’ll create a function that takes information from the POST request and adds it to the catalog.
3. Add middleware so the application can accept POST data. We need to tell the application how incoming data should be organized and structured.
4. Test routes in Insomnia. We’ll use an application called Insomnia to test the new POST route functionality.

## 11.2.3 Add POST Route to Animals Endpoint

-   GET requests retrieve data from a server and send it back to the client. We already created 2 GET routes.

### How does data get stored on the server

1. dev team populates data manually because they have access to server code
2. users of the app populate the server with data by sending data from client side of the application to teh server

### POST routes

```
app.post('/api/animals', (req, res) => {});
```

-   another method of the `app` object, like `app.get()`.
-   route `/api/animals` already being used for GET request, but it's OK because this is a POST request.

    -   a GET request is made every time we enter a URL into the browser and hit "enter." Returns JSON or a webpage
    -   Fetch API default request method is GET

-   Using info the request object gives us, we can package up data and send it to the server.
-   `req.body` is where we access data on server side and do something with it.
-   using `console.log` and `res.json` to test the new route

```
app.post("/api/animals", (req, res) => {
	// req.body is where our incoming content will be
	console.log(req.body);
	res.json(req.body);
});
```

#### Testing POST routes

-   beware "man in middle" attacks, use express-validation or other library.
-   GET routes are easily testable with a browser.
-   POST request testing options:
    -   write front-end app to make a `fetch()` request to send data to server. Time-consuming.
    -   Use Insomnia or Postman to make client-side server requests without having to use a browser.

### Test POST Request Endpoint

Two major differences between JSON and JavaScript object literal notation are:

1. Strings must use double quotes, not single quotes.
2. Names must be strings.

## 11.2.5 Add Middleware So the Application Can Accept POST Data

When a client communicates with a server to transfer data, (POST or GET), that happens over HTTP. HTTP doesn't understand data _type_.

When we ask for JSON data using a GET request, our server code uses `res.json()` to provide context to the client receiving the data.

### Parse Incoming Data

Tell Express.js app to intercept our POST request before it gets to the callback function. It will run through a few functions to convert it to JSON object.

```
// parse incoming string or array data
app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: true }));
// parse incoming JSON data
app.use(express.json());
```

#### Middleware

The following need to be set up every time you create a server that's looking to accept POST data:
| code | explanation |
| --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `app.use()` | is executed by Express.js server. It mounts a function to the server that our requests will pass through before getting to the intended endpoint. |
| `express.urlencoded({extended: true})` method | built into Express.js. Takes incoming POST data & converts it to key/value pairings that can be accessed in the `req.body` object. `extended: true` tells server there may be sub-array data nested as well in order to look as deep as possible into the POST data. |
| `express.json()` method | takes incoming POST data in the form of JSON and parses it into the `req.body` js object. |

**Middleware functions**

-   allow us to keep our route endpoint callback functions more readable
-   let us reuse functionality across routes to keep our code DRY.

## 11.2.6 Add Function to Handle Animal Creation

Create a separate function to handle taking data from `req.body` and adding it to our `animal.json` file.

-   keeps code more organized
-   ability to test writing to our `animals.json` file without having to go through the POST route every time.

#### `createNewAnimal` function

-   accepts
    -   POST route's `req.body` value
    -   array we want to add data to (`animalsArray`)
-   function executed from within `app.post()` route's callback function
-   adds data to `animals.json`
-   after saving it, data sentbackto the route's callback function to respond to the request

### Add an ID to the Animal

GET route created way to search for a single animal's data by its `id` property used `req.params.id`.

We want to generate `id` value on the server. The `/api/animals/:id` route needs to be unique.

1. New post data received.
2. Take length property of the array
3. Worry about deleting and updating data with Express.js later.

```
app.post("/api/animals", (req, res) => {
	// req.body is where our incoming content will be
	// set id based on what the next index of the array will be
	req.body.id = animals.length.toString();

	res.json(req.body);
});
```

### Write Animal Data to JSON

1. update POST route's callback to send updated `req.body` data to `createNewAnimal()`.

```
app.post('/api/animals', (req, res) => {
  // set id based on what the next index of the array will be
  req.body.id = animals.length.toString();

  // add animal to json file and animals array in this function
  const animal = createNewAnimal(req.body, animals);

  res.json(animal);
});
```

2. Add `animalsArray.push(animal)` to `createNewAnimal()`

```
function createNewAnimal(body, animalsArray) {
  const animal = body;
  animalsArray.push(animal);

  return animal;
}
```

When a new animal is POSTed, it'll be added to the imported `animals` array from the `animals.json` file. BUT, it won't actually add the data to `animals.json`.

-   When `require()` is used to import data or functionality, it's only reading the data and creating a copy to use in `server.js`.
-   Therefore, need to use `fs` library to write data to `animals.json`

Add:

```
const fs = require("fs");
const path = require("path");
```

`path`

-   a module built into Node.js API that provides utilities for working with file and directory paths.
-   makes working with file system more predictable, especially with production environments like Heroku.

```
function createNewAnimal(body, animalsArray) {
  const animal = body;
  animalsArray.push(animal);
  fs.writeFileSync(
    path.join(__dirname, './data/animals.json'),
    JSON.stringify({ animals: animalsArray }, null, 2)
  );
  return animal;
}
```
`fs.writeFileSync()` method 
-   the synchronous version of `fs.writeFile()` and doesn't require a callback function. 
-   with larger data sets, the asynchronous version would be better. 

`path.join()` method
-   write to our `animals.json` file in the `data` subdirectory -->
-   use `path.join()` method to join the value of `__dirname` which represents the directory of teh file we execute the code in

`JSON.stringify()`
-    save js array data as JSON
-   `null` and `2` keep data formatted
    -   `null` means we don't edit any existing data
    -   `2` indicates we want to create white space between values to make it more readable. 

### Add Validation to Our Data
Make sure users include all necessary info when creating new animals
-   pass data through `validateAnimal(animal)` function 
-   `animal` param going to be the content from `req.body`, run through series of checks
```
function validateAnimal(animal) {
  if (!animal.name || typeof animal.name !== 'string') {
    return false;
  }
  if (!animal.species || typeof animal.species !== 'string') {
    return false;
  }
  if (!animal.diet || typeof animal.diet !== 'string') {
    return false;
  }
  if (!animal.personalityTraits || !Array.isArray(animal.personalityTraits)) {
    return false;
  }
  return true;
}
```
-   `res.status(400).send('The animal is not properly formatted.');` is a response method to realy a message to the client making the request. 
