# 11.3

-   Created GET routes that serve HTML content instead of JSON.
-   Implemented a special Express.js middleware function that helps serve front-end assets.
-   Used front-end JavaScript to send data to our POST routes.
-   Deepened your knowledge and revisited front-end GET functionality using the Fetch API.

## 11.3.2 Preview

We need to create routes so that all of the content (HTML and JSON) is handled by the server. We’ll need to set up these pages before we can add the ability to ask for the server’s JSON data that we’ll display to users.

| Step # | Module # | Task                                    | Description                                                                                                            |
| ------ | -------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1      | 11.3.3   | Set up new front end.                   | We’ll download code for the front end of the application the client has provided us with and set it up in the project. |
| 2      | 11.3.4   | Create routes to serve index.html.      | We'll create a route that serves the HTML file.                                                                        |
| 3      | 11.3.5   | Finish POST functionality.              | We need to finish some front-end code to handle making a POST request to the server.                                   |
| 4      | 11.3.6   | Create routes to serve other pages.     | We have other HTML pages the client wants to use for displaying data, so let’s create routes for them.                 |
| 5      | 11.3.7   | Finish GET requests to serve page data. | We need to finish the client-side GET requests to handle getting the JSON data to display to users.                    |

## 11.3.3 Set Up the New Front End

-   set up file structure from imaginary front-end developer.
-   folder with front-end code typically called `public` from Apache web server software days or `client`.

### Break Down the Front-End Code

-   front-end css and js already set up
-   `animals.html`
    -   allows users to see animal data from server
    -   on load, performs GET request to receive all anial info
    -   allows users to display filtered lists of animals
-   `zookeepers.html` will be similar to `animals.html` to share info about zookeepers.

Reminders:

-   Need to set up API calls with `fetch()`
-   Because we're using a server, When testing, need to use `http://localhost:3001` or `https://<your-heroku-app-name>.herokuapp.com`

## 11.3.4 Create Routse to Serve `index.html`

1. serve `index.html` from Express.js server
2. test it out to make sure it works correctly before moving on.

### serve `index.html` from Express.js server

reminder: `app.listen()` should always be last.

-   `/` route points to root of server
-   instead of `res.json()`, we're using`res.sendFile()` with `path` module to ensure we're finding correct location for HTML code
    -   Before Express.js and its `res.sendFile()` method, `fs` module was used to locate and read file's content, then send it back to client using `res.send()` method.
    -   With `res.sendFile()`, it's all-in-one method. Just need ot tell it where file is located.

```
app.get('/', (req, res) => {
	res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, './public/index.html'));
});
```

-   the URL won't say `index.html` because
    -   made a request to server's route `/` and it responded with HTML.
    -   only the file's contents get sent to the browser

### Serve Static Files

Why aren't the CSS and JS files displaying? Never created explicit routes in the Express.js server to serve the css and js files.

Whenever we need to ask for another file's info in our HTML (`<script src="script.js">` or `<link hrep="style.css">`), we're making HTTP GET requests. The code lives within our folder structure, but even local requests occur over HTTP.

Thankfully, this can be set up with middleware.

## 11.3.5 Finish POST Functionality

??? I need to better understand how script.js fits together

`script.js` handles form submissions

-   `fetch()` method performs GET requests. Asks server for info to use on front end of our application.
-   This time, we now have data that needs to be POSTed (sent to back end).

1. specify what type of request it is and set the method to `POST`. Allows request to make it to the proper endpoint in our server, created in previosu lesson to add new animals to the JSON file.
2. tell the request what typo of data we're looking to send
3. provide the data.
    - `headers` property set to inform reqeust it's JSON data
    - add stringified JSON data for `animalObject` to the `body` property of the request.
    - Without those, the `req.body` would never be received on the server.

the URL is `/api/amimals` because the `fetch()` request is coming from the server.

```
fetch('/api/animals', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    Accept: 'application/json',
    'Content-Type': 'application/json'
  },
  body: JSON.stringify(animalObject)
})
  .then(response => {
    if (response.ok) {
      return response.json();
    }
    alert('Error: ' + response.statusText);
  })
  .then(postResponse => {
    console.log(postResponse);
    alert('Thank you for adding an animal!');
  });
```

## 11.3.6 Create Routes to Serve Other Pages

-   this route takes us to `/animals` not `/api/animals`
    -   Express.js isn't opinionated about how routes are named and organized.
    -   the routes we create need to be organized, and communicate what type of data is being transfereed at that endpoint (HTML).
    -   a route that has `api` in it will transfer JSON data.
-   do same for zookeepers, and add wildcard `*` to catch any other possible entries.

```
app.get("/animals", (req, res) => {
	res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, "./public/animals.html"));
});

app.get("/zookeepers", (req, res) => {
	res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, "./public/zookeepers.html"));
});
app.get("/*", (req, res) => {
	res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, "./public/index.html"));
});
```

## 11.3.7 Finish GET Requests to Serve Page Data

Use `fetch()` to GET animal data from `/api/animals`.

In `animals.js`'s `getAnimals()`function...

-   if nothing passed into `formData`,the request will GET `/api/animals`.

On form submission:

1. calls `handleGetAnimalsSubmit()`
2. it gathers all of the form input data, packages it as object to send to `getAnimals()` as the `formData` argument.
3. the `formData` object is passed through `Object.entries()` method to create query parameters.

```
const getAnimals = (formData = {}) => {
  let queryUrl = '/api/animals?';

  Object.entries(formData).forEach(([key, value]) => {
    queryUrl += `${key}=${value}&`;
  });

  console.log(queryUrl);
};
```
Therefore, in order to GET animal, all you have to do is make a request using `queryURL`. 
-   standard `fetch()` usage for making a GET request
-   when using `fetch()` we have to check if the `ok` property is true or false. 
-   When that's done, we send our array to `printResults()` to generate cards for each animal and print them on the page. 

- using an alert for now because it's internal. With public, better to use a modal AKA "toast" dialog box. 