# 11.4 Modularization

-   **Create animal routes that allow a user to add new animals to the catalog (i.e. the JSON file)**
-   **refactor `server.js` to improve code quality and organization**

-   Break out animal functions into their own files in a lib/ directory.
-   Use express.Router() instead of app.
-   Create new endpoints and data for zookeepers.

## 11.4.2

Which of the following gameplans do you think is the best way to tackle this lesson?

| step # | Module # | Task                                            | Description                                                                                                                                |
| ------ | -------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1      | 11.4.3   | Move animal functions to a separate file.       | The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the _animal functions_ into a separate file.                            |
| 2      | 11.4.4   | Move routes to a separate file.                 | The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the _routes_ into a separate file in anticipation of additional routes. |
| 3      | 11.4.5   | Test the functions.                             | We’ll test the functions in their new locations.                                                                                           |
| 4      | 11.4.6   | Build dataset and functionality for zookeepers. | We’ll need to create a JSON with zookeeper data and the routes to access the zookeeper functions.                                          |
| 5      | 11.4.7   | Create front-end functionality for Zookeepers.  | We’ll create the front-end functionality at the end so that it already has a working back end to communicate with.                         |

incorrect answer: Build dataset and functionality for zookeepers. We’ll need to create a JSON with zookeeper data and the routes to access the zookeeper functions. Move animal functions to a separate file. The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the animal functions into a separate file. Move routes to a separate file. The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the routes into a separate file in anticipation of additional routes. Test the functions. We’ll test the functions in their new locations. Create front-end functionality for Zookeepers. We’ll create the front-end functionality at the end so that it already has a working back end to communicate with. , . selected

1. Move animal functions to a separate file. | The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the animal functions into a separate file. Move routes to a separate file. The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the routes into a separate file in anticipation of additional routes. Test the functions. We’ll test the functions in their new locations. Build dataset and functionality for zookeepers. We’ll need to create a JSON with zookeeper data and the routes to access the zookeeper functions. Create front-end functionality for Zookeepers. We’ll create the front-end functionality at the end so that it already has a working back end to communicate with. ,
2. Build dataset and functionality for zookeepers. |We’ll need to create a JSON with zookeeper data and the routes to access the zookeeper functions. Move animal functions to a separate file. The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the animal functions into a separate file. Move routes to a separate file. The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the routes into a separate file in anticipation of additional routes. Test the functions. We’ll test the functions in their new locations. Create front-end functionality for Zookeepers. We’ll create the front-end functionality at the end so that it already has a working back end to communicate with. - incorrect
3. Move animal functions to a separate file. The server.js file is getting large and unorganized, so we’ll move the animal functions into a separate file.
4. Test the functions. We’ll test the functions in their new locations.
5. Create front-end functionality for Zookeepers. We’ll create the front-end functionality at the end so that it already has a working back end to communicate with.

## 11.4.3 Move Animal Functions to a Separate File
- create `lib/` folder. `lib/` is short for library, used to store files used by multiple files in your appliaction
- create `animals.js` in that folder